README.md, before:

strauss-ODD
===========

ODD and ODD-related files for TEI / MEI encoding at the Kritische Ausgabe der Werke von Richard Strauss

The schemata generated with this ODD target a form-based editing of TEI code in oXygen's Author Mode. In order to make these documents fully TEI conformant, they have to be transformed by an XSLT script. 
 
Files
-----

`src/rswa.MAIN.odd.xml`

The ODD file. See below for build instructions with ant. 

These files contain low-level edits of various TEI components:

`src/rswa.edits.classes.att.xml`

`src/rswa.edits.datatypes.xml`

`src/rswa.edits.elements.xml`

`src/rswa.edits.macros.xml`

TEI extensions:

`src/rswa.extension.tasks.xml` 

`src/rswa.extension.MEI.xml`

`src/rswa.extension.xinclude.xml`

A copy of Raffaele Viglianti's modified version of the MEI ODD, see [https://github.com/TEI-Music-SIG/tei-mei/blob/master/mei-source.xml]:

`src/mei-source.xml`


Build instructions
------------------

Prerequisites to follow these instructions (which are only one of several ways of generating a schema from the odd): 
- 1. ant 
- 2. an installation of the oXygen XML editor, which contains the TEI build scripts and the necessary jar files

```
ant -f %buildfile% 
-lib %lib%/resolver.jar 
-lib %lib%/saxon9ee.jar 
-Dverbose=true 
-DdefaultSource=%defaultSource% 
-DinputFile=%inputFile% 
-Dlang=%lang% 
-DoutputFile=%outputFile% 
-DselectedSchema=%selectedSchema%
```

Example values:
- %buildfile% - "C:\Program Files\Oxygen XML Editor 15\frameworks\tei\xml\tei\stylesheet\relaxng\build-to.xml"
- %lib% - "C:\Program Files\Oxygen XML Editor 15\lib"
- %defaultSource% - "\Program Files\Oxygen XML Editor 15\frameworks\tei\xml\tei\odd\p5subset.xml"
- %inputFile% - "C:\test\rswa.MAIN.odd.xml"
- %lang% - de
- %outputFile% - "C:\test\persons.rng"
- %selectedSchema% - schema.persons (for a list of possible schemata, see the file `rswa.MAIN.odd.xml`.

Commit message:

Added credits, extended build instructions

README.md, after:

strauss-ODD
===========

ODD and ODD-related files for TEI / MEI encoding at the Kritische Ausgabe der Werke von Richard Strauss

The schemata generated with this ODD target a form-based editing of TEI code in oXygen's Author Mode. In order to make these documents fully TEI conformant, they have to be transformed by an XSLT script. 
 
Files
-----

`src/rswa.MAIN.odd.xml`

The ODD file. See below for build instructions with ant. 

These files contain low-level edits of various TEI components:

`src/rswa.edits.classes.att.xml`

`src/rswa.edits.datatypes.xml`

`src/rswa.edits.elements.xml`

`src/rswa.edits.macros.xml`

TEI extensions:

`src/rswa.extension.tasks.xml` 

`src/rswa.extension.MEI.xml`

`src/rswa.extension.xinclude.xml`

A copy of Raffaele Viglianti's modified version of the MEI ODD, see [https://github.com/TEI-Music-SIG/tei-mei/blob/master/mei-source.xml]:

`src/mei-source.xml`


Build instructions
------------------

Required to follow these instructions: 
- 1. ANT, 
- 2. an installation of the oXygen XML editor, which contains the TEI build scripts and the necessary JAR files (if you don't use oXygen, you can get the JARs and the TEI stylesheets elsewhere).

```
ant -f %buildfile% 
-lib %lib%/resolver.jar 
-lib %lib%/saxon9ee.jar 
-Dverbose=true 
-DdefaultSource=%defaultSource% 
-DinputFile=%inputFile% 
-Dlang=%lang% 
-DoutputFile=%outputFile% 
-DselectedSchema=%selectedSchema%
```

Example values:
- %buildfile% - "C:\Program Files\Oxygen XML Editor 15\frameworks\tei\xml\tei\stylesheet\relaxng\build-to.xml"
- %lib% - "C:\Program Files\Oxygen XML Editor 15\lib"
- %defaultSource% - "\Program Files\Oxygen XML Editor 15\frameworks\tei\xml\tei\odd\p5subset.xml"
- %inputFile% - "C:\test\rswa.MAIN.odd.xml"
- %lang% - de
- %outputFile% - "C:\test\persons.rng"
- %selectedSchema% - schema.persons (for a list of possible schemata, see the file `rswa.MAIN.odd.xml`.

It should also be possible to build a schema by applying a transformation scenario to the ODD in oXygen. In this case, add selectedSchema to the transformation settings.

Note: When odd2odd.xsl throws an error in the build process, it might be necessary to 1) replace the source attributes in the file src/rswa.extension.MEI.xml by absolute paths, or 2) alternatively, copy src/mei-source.xml to odd2odd.xsl's folder (for example, C:/Program%20Files/Oxygen%20XML%20Editor%2015/frameworks/tei/xml/tei/stylesheet/odds; don't delete the copy in your odd folder.

Credits
-------

Based on the TEI P5 specifications at [http://www.tei-c.org/release/xml/tei/odd/p5subset.xml], this ODD integrates Raffaele Viglianti's prefixed version of the MEI's "mei-source.xml" [tei-mei](https://github.com/TEI-Music-SIG/tei-mei/">tei-mei</ref>), the TEI-C's [XInclude ODD](http://www.tei-c.org/release/xml/tei/custom/odd/tei_xinclude.odd), and draws on specifications in Peter Stadler's [Carl-Maria-von-Weber-Gesamtausgabe ODDs](https://github.com/Edirom/WeGA-ODD).
